# NMA

Across species, many behaviours appear during social interaction. Mice are one of the most suitable animal models for studying social interaction due to exhibiting behaviours such as aggression and investigation (Chen et al., 2023). Monitoring and quantifying behaviour allow for new insights into social behaviour in model animals. However, it is unknown if previously displayed behaviours in the sequence can predict the initiation of behaviours. In the Caltech Mouse Social Interactions (CalMS21) dataset (Sun et al., 2021), the social behaviour of a mouse in confrontation with an intruder mouse in a shared space is recorded. Based on preliminary analysis, we hypothesised that bouts of aggression can be predicted by previous behaviour, specifically by investigation. We inquired about the pre-classified attack, mount, and investigation behaviour trends in time with predictive models such as autoregressive correlation. Moreover, we checked for specific relationships between the behaviours by fitting a generalised linear model (GLM) to the behaviours in videos. We found negative correlations between all the behaviours, suggesting that a behavioural trade-off is taking place. Additionally, we found that behaviour varies over time. Specifically, attack behaviour precedes investigation in time. This pattern of behaviours may result from selective mechanisms in social situations where agents, in this case, mice, must decide which behaviour should be expressed based on the dynamic properties of the situation (other interacting partners, previous behaviour, arousal, etc.). We conclude that absence of aggression may be a marker for investigative behaviour. Future research should examine how aggression and investigation may interact in bigger groups of mice and what potential relationships may influence mice’s social interactions. Finally, more features could be extracted, for example, velocity and inter-animal distance, to correlate them with labelled behaviours. 
